*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 49803 ***

                            Copyright 1914




                            FLORIDA SALADS

                       “Nothing lovelier can be
                        found in woman, than to
                        study household good.”
                               --Milton.

                         FRANCES BARBER HARRIS
                                 1914
                         JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA




Preface.


If the writer can impress upon the readers of this little salad book the
importance of eating salads, the writing of it will not be in vain.

The addition of a pretty salad to a menu not only gives a refined,
attractive appearance to the table, but is appetizing, and, I might say,
almost a necessity in this climate, speaking from a health standpoint.
Fruits and vegetables contain a large amount of the necessary salts
required by the system, and as for olive oil, the many benefits derived
from the use of pure olive oil are so great that it is considered by
good authority a positive beautifier. We all know that celery and onions
are soothing to the nerves.

This is not a very comprehensive work, but a collection of a few
practical, palatable recipes, combined, proportioned and tested by the
author. It is especially written with the hope that it will be of some
assistance to young housekeepers in making their meals attractive and
dainty. With a few exceptions, the materials used in these salads are
produced in Florida.

In making salads there is a field for a great deal of originality. With
a little taste and painstaking care, most attractive, and at the same
time wholesome dishes may be originated.




Important Pointers.


Of course only the freshest and best materials are reckoned in these
recipes. It is a mistake to think the mixing will hide the quality.

Lettuce, endive, celery, and all salad greens should be most carefully
washed, crisped one hour in ice water, put into a cheese cloth bag and
kept near the ice until needed; or, shake gently, put into a covered
stone jar and set in cool place. Cover jar with cloth before putting on
the top. All salad materials should be thoroughly cold and salads kept
cold until served.

Pecans can be cracked easily and meats gotten out whole if they are
scalded and left in the hot water a few moments; crack lengthwise. Scald
nut meats to blanch.

Do not be afraid to use red pepper in salads. It is wholesome and often
prevents them from being indigestible.

Salads should not be mixed any longer before serving than absolutely
necessary.

Onions should be sliced and soaked at least one hour in ice water before
using for salads. They are milder and not so apt to disagree with one.
Cucumbers should be sliced thinly and crisped in ice water one hour
before eating. It makes them more wholesome.

Let the hands come in contact with salads as little as possible. Use
fork and spoon for mixing dressings and tossing salads together. When
convenient make French dressing and mix salad at the table.

A small lump of ice put into French dressing while being made keeps it
cool and makes it milder.

A tiny pinch of sugar improves most salads.

The secret of making mayonnaise that will not curdle is in using
perfectly fresh eggs and cold, pure olive oil. Care and judgment is also
needed; materials differ and have to be used accordingly. Stir in one
direction.

It is best not to use silver or metal utensil in making dressing or in
mixing salads. The writer uses an orange wood fork and spoon. The wood
is hard and does not discolor.

A heavy white porcelain bowl holding about one quart is a convenient
size in which to mix mayonnaise.

Squeeze lemon and strain juice before beginning mayonnaise.

When mayonnaise loosens or begins to curdle, put in a pinch of corn
starch, or if it separates after making, put an egg yolk into a fresh
bowl and gradually stir mayonnaise into it.

The writer never uses cream in combination with salad dressings, from
the fact that lemon juice and vinegar curdle cream. The desired quantity
of the following is a good substitute: one teacupful of fresh, rich,
sweet milk thickened with one teaspoonful of corn starch cooked in a
double boiler; when it begins to thicken add one teaspoonful of butter.
When it is the consistency of thick cream, remove from fire, beat well
and put near ice until needed. It will be referred to in these recipes
as Cream Substitute.

When canned meats are used for salads, the can should be opened at least
half hour before using, meat placed in a porcelain, glass or china bowl
and thoroughly aerated.

Lettuce is so succulent and easy to bruise that breaking or pulling it
to pieces with the fingers is a more delicate way than cutting with a
knife.

Salads should never be sour but so delicately blended that no seasoning
predominates.

“Distrust the condiment that bites too soon.”

A little claret added to Plain Mayonnaise is very nice for fruit salads.

Before making sandwiches, bread may be peeled, or all crust taken off
with a very sharp knife.

Slightly melt butter before spreading on bread for sandwiches.

It is best to spread butter on end of loaf before slicing for
sandwiches. Use very sharp knife for cutting bread.

An ordinary tea cup, level full, rounded table spoon and tea spoon are
used for measuring these recipes.




Salad Dressings.


COOKED YELLOW SALAD DRESSING.

Three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one scant teaspoonful of salt, one half
teaspoonful mustard, one teaspoonful sugar, white and red pepper to make
rather hot; cook in double boiler and when hot add one half teacup of
butter. When butter is melted stir in yolks of three well beaten eggs
and continue to stir until mixture is the consistency of thick cream.
Take from fire, beat well and put on ice. When thoroughly chilled, fold
in the well beaten white of an egg.


COOKED WHITE SALAD DRESSING.

One cup of fresh, rich, sweet milk. Thicken with one teaspoonful of corn
starch and cook in a double boiler. When it begins to thicken add one
tablespoonful of butter, stirring until as thick as heavy cream. Remove
from fire and add one half teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of
tarragon vinegar, white pepper to taste and beat until smooth. When cold
fold in one egg white, well beaten.


LEMON DRESSING.

One-half teaspoonful of salt well sprinkled with white pepper, three
tablespoonfuls of olive oil and the juice of half a lemon beaten
alternately until thick.


FRENCH DRESSING.

One teaspoonful of salt, tabasco or cayenne and black pepper to taste;
one half cup of cold olive oil, one and one-half tablespoonfuls of
vinegar. Stir oil and vinegar alternately into salt and pepper with an
orange wood fork until thick. Serve at once.

Instead of olive oil, bacon grease is sometimes used. It is then called
German dressing instead of French dressing.


NUT DRESSING.

Pound into a smooth paste pecan meats and mix with French dressing, or
mix peanut butter with French dressing. Nice to serve over plain
lettuce.


MAYONNAISE, PLAIN.

Put yolks of two eggs and one teaspoonful of salt into a cold bowl and
stir until smooth with an orange wood fork; gradually add cold olive oil
and lemon juice alternately until one and one-half cups of oil and the
juice of one small lemon have been used. Season with Tabasco to taste.
This makes a stiff mayonnaise. Lightly fold into it one egg white beaten
dry. If a milder dressing is preferred, mix the above with equal part of
cream substitute. This recipe can be doubled or halved.


MAYONNAISE No. 1.

Two yolks, one-half teaspoonful salt, dash of mustard, sprinkling of
white pepper, a pinch of sugar and six drops of Tabasco. Stir smoothly
and add, a few drops at a time, cold olive oil until it is thick and
cakes on the spoon. Thin with lemon juice and add oil and lemon juice
alternately until one and one-half cups of oil and juice of one small
lemon have been used. A few drops of vinegar may also be added. Cooking
oil is used by some in place of olive oil.


MAYONNAISE No. 2.

Yolks of two hard boiled eggs, one raw yolk, a quarter of a teaspoonful
of mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, cayenne to taste, juice of half a
lemon, a tablespoonful of vinegar and two cups of olive oil. Work the
oil and seasoning gradually into the cold yolks as in plain mayonnaise.
This dressing can be increased in quantity by adding cream substitute.


GREEN MAYONNAISE.

Soak strips of sweet, green peppers in slightly salted ice water two
hours. Drain, chop finely with a sharp knife and fold into mayonnaise.


RED MAYONNAISE.

Cut pimentoes into fine pieces and fold into mayonnaise.


DEEP YELLOW MAYONNAISE.

Mash one teaspoonful of butter into the yolks of two hard boiled eggs
while warm, and when cold stir into the plain mayonnaise.


ROQUEFORT DRESSING.

French dressing with Roquefort cheese mashed smoothly into it.


LEMON JELLY.

One package of gelatine soaked in one cup of cold water; add one-half
cup of lemon juice, tablespoonful of sugar and two and half cups of
boiling water. Cook a few seconds. Clarify with whites of two eggs.




Dinner Salads.


LETTUCE HEART SALAD No. 1.

Leaves of small lettuce hearts slightly pulled apart, thoroughly washed
and soaked in ice water one hour. Drain, dip in French dressing and
sprinkle with finely shredded celery mixed with chopped pimentoes. Serve
with or without mayonnaise, one to each person.


LETTUCE HEART SALAD No. 2.

Lettuce hearts prepared as above and sprinkled with finely chopped nut
meats instead of celery and pimentoes. Serve with mayonnaise.


LETTUCE SALAD.

Select the white inner leaves of a cabbage head lettuce. Serve a few
leaves on a plate dressed with Roquefort dressing.


ENDIVE SALAD.

Pick well bleached endive apart, wash well and crisp one-half hour in
ice water. Shake and marinate in French dressing.


MALAGA SALAD.

With a sharp knife slit one side of large Malaga grapes, take out the
seed and fill with blanched pecan meats. For each plate, put two leaves
of romaine side by side pinched together, and a row of grapes in each
leaf resembling peas in a pod. Put one-half teaspoonful of Green
Mayonnaise on the ends of each leaf.


TOMATO CUPS.

Large, firm, cold tomatoes peeled with a thin bladed sharp knife; scoop
out the centers and fill with chopped celery and nuts mixed with
mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves.


AVOCADO PEAR SALAD.

Cut pears in half lengthwise and remove seed; sprinkle with salt, pepper
and lemon or lime juice and eat with a spoon. One-half to each person.


ROMAINE SALAD.

Wash romaine lettuce well, crisp in ice water, dress with French
dressing mixed with finely chopped pimentoes. Dress at table.


BELL PEPPER SALAD.

Finely shred large, sweet bell peppers and soak one hour in ice water;
drain and chop fine. Prepare endive in same manner and mix together with
French dressing to which a little Worcestershire and Tabasco sauce have
been added. Put a thin slice of a large firm tomato on each place and a
tablespoonful of salad on each slice. This is rather a hot salad and a
little suffices. It is also good with deviled crabs for a Luncheon or
Bridge.


ASPARAGUS SALAD.

Cooked asparagus chilled, a few stalks put on lettuce leaves, sprinkled
with chopped nuts and served with mayonnaise.


STRING BEAN SALAD.

Cold string beans which have been cooked in the old fashioned Southern
way with bacon, mixed with chopped tomatoes, onions, and cucumbers and
dressed with a French dressing. Add a little Tabasco and Worcestershire
sauce to dressing. Serve on lettuce leaves or a tablespoonful on salad
plate with curled round radish on side. Of course the onions and
cucumbers must be soaked in ice water and drained before adding to
salad.


GREEN PEA SALAD.

Boil peas in salted water and drain. Boil mushrooms in salted water,
chop and drain. Mix peas and mushrooms together with French dressing.
Scoop the center out of firm tomatoes, fill with the mixture and put on
lettuce leaves. Sprinkle a few peas around the tomatoes and put a
spoonful of Red Mayonnaise on top.


CELERY STICK SALAD No. 1.

Wash celery well with a brush, crisp in ice water and dry. Select well
grooved stalks, remove strings or threads, cut in uniform lengths and
fill grooves with cold tomato jelly, just before it hardens. Serve two
stalks on two romaine lettuce leaves with a teaspoonful of mayonnaise
on side of plate. Eat with fingers, dipping celery ends in dressing.


CELERY STICK SALAD No. 2.

Prepare celery as in recipe for Celery Stick Salad No. 1. Fill grooves
with cream cheese mashed with pimento. Serve in same way.


CELERY SALAD.

Chop crisp celery and mix with blanched, broken pecan meats. Put two
romaine lettuce leaves on each plate, and in the middle, along the
length of each leaf put a little row of the mixture, with a small stream
of mayonnaise on top.


TOMATO JELLY.

Mash fresh tomatoes through a sieve, enough to make pint and half.
Dissolve one package of gelatine, add to tomatoes, season with cloves,
salt, celery seed and white pepper. Boil a few seconds, remove from
fire, strain, and when cold set near ice.


CUCUMBER SALAD.

Two long glass house cucumbers and one medium white onion sliced thinly
and soaked in ice water. Drain well and lightly mix with two cold, firm
tomatoes cut with a sharp knife into small pieces. Add a little
Worcestershire sauce and a pinch of sugar to a plain French dressing and
pour over salad and serve on lettuce leaves.


CAULIFLOWER SALAD.

Boil cauliflower in salted water until tender and drain. Put a spray of
it on a lettuce leaf with a few blocks of hard boiled egg. Dress with a
spoonful of mayonnaise dressing.


SPINACH SALAD.

Boil spinach until tender. Salt and pepper while cooking. When done,
mash fine, drain, and season with butter. Mince cucumber pickle, add to
spinach and mould in individual moulds. Turn out on a bed of cress, put
grated hard boiled eggs around the base and Green Mayonnaise on top.


RADISH SALAD.

Peel firm young radishes, cut in small pieces, and soak in ice water
one-half hour. Drain and mix with broken blanched pecan meats. Serve on
lettuce with Mayonnaise No. 2. Garnish with round red radishes sliced in
the shape of roses.


CABBAGE SALAD.

The half of one small, hard, white cabbage shredded finely, mixed with
one small, white onion chopped and all soaked in ice water two hours.
Drain well and mix with half the amount of finely shredded celery; dust
with cayenne, sprinkle with a pinch of sugar and dress with French
dressing containing a dash of Worcestershire sauce. Serve in a nest of
endive and put a few small blocks of red beet which have been dressed
with vinegar, on top.


STRAWBERRY SALAD.

Slice strawberries. Add half the quantity of thinly sliced kumquats and
sprinkle lightly with sugar. Dress with a very little lemon dressing and
put in small cup shaped leaves of white lettuce. Garnish with a large
strawberry, with cap and stem.


MAMMEE-SAPOTA SALAD.

Cut in half, remove seed and dress with lemon dressing, adding a few
drops of the juice of sour sops. Serve on lettuce leaf and eat with a
spoon. This is a very pretty dish.


FLORIDA SALAD.

Peel grapefruit, oranges, and tangerines; divide into lobes, remove
white skin and seed, and put on lettuce leaves. Cut a pineapple into
small square blocks and pile a little on top of each plate of salad.
Around the salad put slices of banana with a little lemon juice squeezed
over. Serve with mayonnaise.




Luncheon Salads.


AVOCADO PEAR SALAD.

Cut the meat of an avocado pear in strips, lengthwise, then cut into
square blocks. Mix carefully, without mashing, with cold hard boiled
eggs, cut up. If the pears are not too large, fill hulls with the salad
and place on lettuce or serve on lettuce without the hulls. Dress with
Mayonnaise No. 2.


OYSTER SALAD.

One pint of small, fresh oysters. Strain the liquor and rinse the
oysters in ice water; put oysters back in liquor and scald until well
curled. Drain and chill. Mix with equal quantity of diced celery, one
small cucumber pickle chopped fine, a sprinkling of cayenne, and one
cupful of chopped mushrooms. Serve on lettuce with Green Mayonnaise.


TUNA SALAD.

Mix equal quantity of tuna and chopped celery. Slice midget cucumber
pickles in lengthwise, small strips, mix with the fish and celery and
sprinkle with cayenne. Serve on lettuce leaves and dress with Mayonnaise
No. 2. This salad is also nice for bridge parties. The tuna fish is
often called the “Chicken of the sea.”


TURKEY SALAD.

Put a thin slice of tender turkey on a lettuce leaf. Mince celery and
truffles, mix with mayonnaise and put a little mound of it on each
piece of turkey and top with a Salmiring. (Rings cut from seeded
olives.)


CHICKEN ASPIC SALAD.

Cover a four pound fat chicken with boiling water, season with salt and
black pepper, and simmer until tender. Remove chicken. Season liquor
with a finely chopped small onion, a few cloves, a dash of cayenne and
boil down to about one pint and a half. Soak one box of gelatine in a
cup of cold water with one tablespoonful of lemon juice added. Pour into
chicken stock and boil a few seconds. Remove from the fire and strain,
then clarify with the whites of two eggs. Dice the cold chicken and add
half the quantity of celery cut fine. Just before the gelatine begins to
set, put a little in the bottom of individual cups, add chicken and
celery and finish the top with more gelatine. Put cups near ice until
ready to serve. Turn out of cups--using a thin bladed warm knife--on
lettuce leaves, and with a paper tube squeeze a little ring of stiff
mayonnaise around the base of salad. Put an olive and two maraschino
cherries on top of each.


SARDINE EGGS.

Hard boiled eggs split lengthwise in halves and a teaspoonful of sardine
mayonnaise on top, served on lettuce leaves.

Sardine Mayonnaise: plain mayonnaise with boned sardines mashed into it.
Make pretty hot with tabasco and add finely chopped cucumber pickles.


EGG LILIES.

Carefully cut the white of hard boiled eggs down lengthwise to form
petals. At the base of each petal put a drop of Deep Yellow Mayonnaise
and on top of the yolk, in center, make a tiny indentation and fill with
Green Mayonnaise.

These are pretty to serve on a helped plate containing cold boiled ham
and sandwiches.

Put a few nasturtium leaves around the lilies.


CHICKEN SALAD.

Salt and pepper one four pound fat chicken and simmer in water enough to
cover until perfectly tender. When done, remove chicken, and if there is
too much liquor boil down until there is just about enough in which to
jelly the chicken. With the kitchen scissors, cut the chicken into half
inch pieces and leave in liquor over night on ice. Just before serving,
mix jellied chicken with equal quantity of diced, crisp celery and two
teacupsful of broken pecan meats. Turn all into a large mixing bowl, add
one-half teacup of plain French dressing and with salad fork and spoon
lightly toss together. Serve with mayonnaise on lettuce leaves and
garnish with slices of cold, hard boiled eggs and Salmirings.

Veal is often combined with half the amount of chicken in making this
salad. Cover veal with water, season with salt and pepper and simmer
until done. Cut in small pieces and mix with chicken, half veal and half
chicken.


SALMON SALAD.

Bone and drain one medium sized can of the best salmon and sprinkle
lightly with cayenne. Dice an equal quantity of crisp celery, add a few
capers to French dressing and toss all together with fork and spoon.
Serve on lettuce leaves. Grate the whites and yolks of hard boiled eggs
separately, sprinkle a little grated white on top of each serving and
the grated yolks in a ring around the base. Put a teaspoonful of Green
Mayonnaise on top.


CRAB SALAD.

Flake freshly boiled crab meat, sprinkle with cayenne and chill. Before
putting into refrigerator, cool and put into a closely covered dish, as
the odor of fish is disagreeable in a refrigerator. Chop celery, mix
with crab meat, add a squeeze of lemon juice, a sprinkling of salt and
serve in shells with mayonnaise on top, or serve on lettuce leaves and
garnish with thin slices of cucumbers that have been marinated in French
dressing.


SHRIMP SALAD.

Boil and peel fresh shrimps and soak in ice water half hour, drain and
sprinkle with cayenne. Chill shrimp and mix with equal quantity of crisp
celery, a little lemon juice and a sprinkling of salt. Serve in halves
of large green, bell peppers, cut lengthwise. Put Green Mayonnaise on
top and serve on lettuce leaves.


KIPPERED HERRING SALAD.

Flake kippered herring and take out bones. Boil small new Irish
potatoes, in jackets, peel and slice. Slice pickled pearl onions. Gently
mix all together. Dress with French dressing and garnish with sliced
pimolas.


LOBSTER SALAD.

Flake the meat of freshly boiled lobster and chill; add chopped celery
and hard boiled eggs cut into blocks. Season with French dressing to
which a few drops of sherry have been added. Serve in a nest of endive
with mayonnaise.


ROAST BEEF SALAD.

One cupful of cold, roast beef and one cupful of cold Irish potatoes cut
into half inch pieces. Chop one small, white onion and two firm
tomatoes, drain and add to beef and potatoes. Season with red pepper, a
little horseradish, Worcestershire sauce, and French dressing and serve
on small white cabbage leaves.


POTATO SALAD.

Boil Irish potatoes in skins, peel and cut in small blocks. Mix with
half the amount of chopped celery and one fourth the amount of broken
pecans, blanched. Season with Mayonnaise No. 2. Carefully put on lettuce
leaves, without mashing the potato, and garnish with slices of hard
boiled eggs and a little minced pimento.


POTATO ROSE SALAD.

Two cups of hot Irish potato, yolks of two hard boiled eggs, two
tablespoonfuls of butter and a little onion juice mashed through a
potato masher. When cold, add one cup of finely minced celery, season
with French dressing and shape into roses with a pastry tube or form the
petals with a teaspoon on a lettuce leaf. In the center of each rose put
a drop of Green Mayonnaise. On the side of the plate put a little ball
of cream cheese mixed with pimentoes and mashed between two halves of
English walnut meats.


PINEAPPLE SALAD.

Cut the top from a nice, Smooth Cayenne pineapple and scoop out the
inside. Cut pineapple and celery into small pieces, mix with nuts and
mayonnaise and fill the pineapple case. Chill, and put on a pretty salad
dish in a bed of lettuce leaves.


CUCUMBER BOATS.

Cut six, fresh, green cucumbers lengthwise in half, carefully remove
inside and put boats--cut side--on ice until ready to serve. Cut the
inside into small slices, cut four firm tomatoes into small pieces and
one small white onion finely chopped. Drain well and just before
serving, toss together with a French dressing. Fill boats and put on
romaine leaves. Fine to serve on the same plate with deviled crab at a
morning bridge party.


CHEESE AND NUT SALAD.

Mash American cream cheese with pimentoes and peanut butter. Form into
balls and press between halves of blanched English walnut meats. Serve
on lettuce leaf with mayonnaise.


GRAPEFRUIT SALAD.

Cut fruit in half, remove inside carefully, and take white skin from
sections. Lightly mix with Malaga grapes stuffed with nuts; squeeze a
little orange juice over salad; refill hulls and serve on lettuce with
mayonnaise.


SALAD IN GRAPEFRUIT HULLS.

Halve grapefruit crossways, scoop out contents and notch edges of hulls.
Line the hulls with lettuce and fill with chicken salad; garnish with
maraschino cherries and Salmirings. Serve in a bed of endive with
mayonnaise. Put meat of grapefruit in refrigerator and serve next
morning for breakfast in glasses.


ORANGE SALAD.

Orange and grapefruit lobes, mixed with blanched English walnut meats on
lettuce with mayonnaise.


TANGERINE SALAD.

Peel tangerines, divide the lobes and carefully remove seed. Sprinkle
with ground pecans and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise.


BANANA SALAD.

Cut lengthwise a firm, perfect banana and remove inside carefully
forming a boat shaped case. Slice ripe strawberries, mix with the sliced
banana meat and sprinkle with a little sugar. Pour Lemon Dressing over
and carefully fill banana cases without mashing fruit. Place cases on
strawberry leaves. This is dainty served with grated cheese toasted on
crackers, and hot Russian tea.


SALAD IN APPLE CASES.

Select large, bright, red apples. Slice a piece from the top and
carefully remove the inside without cutting the case. Mop the edge of
cases with lemon juice and put near the ice until ready to serve. Stuff
white cherries with nuts to fill the cases, put mayonnaise on top and
serve on lettuce leaves with a row of little square blocks of the apples
around the cases. Apple meat must be dipped in lemon water as soon as
apples are cut to prevent its turning dark.


ORANGE BASKETS.

With a sharp, small knife, carefully cut large oranges in the shape of
baskets with handles, and remove inside. Tie sprays of orange blossoms,
or any small white flowers on handles with green baby ribbon. Fill
baskets with chicken salad, put mayonnaise with a maraschino cherry on
top of each and serve on sprays of orange leaves.


KUMQUAT SALAD.

Split kumquats lengthways in half and mix with equal quantities of red
salad cherries. Put a little lemon jelly in cups, fill nearly full with
fruit and cover with jelly just before it begins to harden. Set on ice
over night. Turn out on lettuce leaves and dress with mayonnaise mixed
with ground, white pecan meats.


LOQUAT SALAD.

Wash and slice loquats and kumquats thinly, then mix with sliced cold
boiled chestnuts and serve on lettuce with mayonnaise.


LEMON AND TOMATO SALAD.

Lemon jelly and tomato jelly moulded in square moulds. When cold and
firm slice into squares; put lemon square on lettuce leaf and tomato
square on top with a spoonful of Deep Yellow Mayonnaise in center. On
the side of the plate put a slice of the following: mash Red Mayonnaise
with cream cheese smoothly, stuff sweet bell peppers with it firmly and
put near ice until ready to serve. Slice with sharp knife in thin round
slices.


MANGO SALAD.

Wash mangoes, slice in long thin slices and serve on lettuce leaves with
Lemon Dressing and a few drops of sour sops. Select the mangoes that are
not stringy.


COCOANUT SALAD.

Cut large selected oranges in half, carefully get the meat out and mix
with freshly grated cocoanut. Put back into the orange hulls and dress
each with a teaspoonful of mayonnaise mixed with Cream Substitute. Put a
maraschino cherry on top and serve on nasturtium leaves and flowers.


TOMATO JELLY SALAD.

Mould tomato jelly in individual cups and put on ice. When ready to
serve turn out on lettuce leaves with Green Mayonnaise and capers on
top. This can be varied by putting nuts and chopped celery in jelly just
before it congeals.


GUAVA SALAD.

Select large, lemon guavas, cut off tops and scoop out seed. Dip hulls
in lemon water to prevent turning dark. Mix sliced truffles with broken
pecan meats, fill hulls and put mayonnaise mixed with Cream Substitute
on top. Serve on lettuce leaves.




Bridge Salads.


LETTUCE AND MAYONNAISE.

Mix finely minced capers and cucumber pickles with mayonnaise and add a
suspicion of mustard and grated horseradish. Select small white cup
shaped lettuce leaves and put a teaspoonful of the dressing on each
leaf. This is nice to serve with hot fried scallops, one leaf on each
plate.


GRAPEFRUIT AND PINEAPPLE SALAD.

Begin at the stem end of grapefruit and cut the peel nearly half way in
six deep points. Curl the points back towards the outside of the fruit.
Scoop out the meat, remove all seeds and white skin and mix with equal
amount of shredded pineapple. Color the inside of the grapefruit case a
cherry red with a tablet, dissolved in water, that comes with gelatine.
In the bottom of case put a folded lettuce leaf--otherwise it would be
too large--and fill with the fruit mixture.

Top with a spoonful of mayonnaise and a few maraschino cherries. Serve
on lettuce. This is attractive.


TOMATO LILY.

Select large firm tomatoes of uniform size, with a sharp small knife
carefully slice the thin outer skin, separate from the meat, into six
petal shaped sections and curl them back from the tomato. Then slice or
split the meat of the tomato into two rows of petals, making three rows
in all. Bend or curl the petals carefully back away from the center or
round ball of seeds. In the center of tomato or seed ball make a hole
and fill with mayonnaise with a drop of Green Mayonnaise on top. Place
on lettuce leaf. This is a little trouble, but is a dainty, pretty way
to serve tomatoes. It is very necessary to have fresh firm tomatoes and
a knife with a small sharp blade.


GRAPEFRUIT JELLY.

Dissolve one package of gelatine in one cup of warm water, add three
cups of strained grapefruit juice and one tablespoonful of sugar. Let
come to a boil, remove from fire and put into a square porcelain mould.

Dissolve one package of gelatine in one cup of boiling water, add three
cups of claret with one tablespoonful of sugar. Mould in a square
porcelain mould. Put a square of grapefruit jelly on top of a square of
claret jelly and a few red salad cherries stuffed with nuts on top.
Serve with Nut Dressing on large lettuce leaves.


GOLDEN-ROD SALAD.

Tear lettuce leaves into uneven sprays, stripping the stems about two
inches. Dip in French dressing, gently shake and put on pretty salad
plates, one spray on each plate. First cover the sprays with ground
pecans or peanuts and then with grated egg yolks. By the side of the
salad put a ring of the whites of the eggs with a spoonful of deep
Yellow Mayonnaise in them. Serve browned almonds with this. To brown
almonds: blanch them and brown in smoking hot olive oil and butter.
Drain and sprinkle lightly with salt.


SALMON SALAD.

Flake salmon, mix with English walnuts, blanched, chopped celery and
mayonnaise, mixed with a little chopped chow chow. Serve in lengthwise
halves of large green peppers on lettuce.


SAPODILLO SALAD.

Cut fruit in half, remove seed, dress with Lemon Dressing and eat with a
spoon. Serve on lettuce leaves.


CABBAGE PALMETTO SALAD.

Get the tender, white buds from tops of cabbage palmettoes, cut in inch
pieces and soak in ice water one hour. Drain, sprinkle with cayenne and
mix with equal quantity of diced celery. Serve with Cooked Dressing and
a few pearl onions.


PORCUPINE SALAD.

Peel six long firm ripe pears, cut lengthwise in halves and core. Cover
with water, add one tablespoonful of sugar and one of lemon juice;
simmer until tender but still firm. When ice cold, stick the outer side
of each piece full of almond bristles, made by splitting blanched
almonds and cutting lengthwise into narrow pieces. In the large end of
each half of pear put two tiny round eyes cut from maraschino cherries
and in the small end stick a small curved piece of conserved citron for
the tail. Serve on lettuce leaf, one to each person. On side of plate
put a spoonful of mayonnaise with two pistachio nuts in it. Canned pears
may also be used for this salad.


BIRD’S NEST SALAD.

Select large apples, peel and cut lengthwise into shoe strings, or small
as can be cut not to break, letting the pieces fall into a pan of lemon
water. On a white lettuce leaf make a nest or pen of apple shreds and
fill with white cherries stuffed with nuts. Dress with a spoonful of Red
Mayonnaise on top. The apples should stay in lemon water about five
minutes and then put on a cloth to drain before using.


BANANA SALAD.

Peel bananas and slice in round thin slices; squeeze a little lemon
juice over them and mix with equal quantity of blanched English walnuts.
Serve on white lettuce leaves with mayonnaise.


SARDINES IN LEMON JELLY.

Put one small sardine in the bottom of each individual mould or cup and
fill half full of lemon jelly. Just before it hardens put a slice of
firm cold tomato on each and put by the ice. When firm turn out of
moulds on lettuce leaves, tomato slice down; the sardine moulded in the
bottom will become the top of the salad. Put a ring of boned and flaked
sardines around salad and serve with mayonnaise.




Salad Sandwiches.


CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICHES.

Slightly mash chicken salad with a potato masher, mix with mayonnaise
and spread between small squares of white bread.


CAVIAR SANDWICHES.

Mix caviar with Lemon Dressing (minus the salt), spread between buttered
slices of white bread dotted with small flakes of lettuce.


ANCHOVY SANDWICHES.

Mince truffles and olives finely, mash with anchovies and spread on
slice of white bread; butter another slice and put sandwich together
with a leaf of lettuce dipped in French dressing.


PIMENTO SANDWICHES.

Peel a Pullman loaf of white bread and slice in medium slices. Spread
the top of one slice with Red Mayonnaise mixed with mashed tomato, the
lower side of the next slice with slightly melted butter, the top of the
same slice with the Red Mayonnaise mixture and so on until you have four
slices, the top slice to be spread with butter only on the under side.
Of course this leaves nothing on the outside of either the top or bottom
slice. Stack four slices, gently press together and wrap in oil paper
until needed. Slice crossways and carefully lay on sandwich plate.


PEPPER SANDWICHES.

Follow the same directions given for pimento sandwiches using Green
Mayonnaise instead of Red.


YELLOW MAYONNAISE SANDWICHES.

Make in the same way as the two preceding recipes using Deep Yellow
Mayonnaise mixed with finely ground nuts. The three kinds of sandwiches
served together on a large tray look very attractive.


SARDINE SANDWICHES.

Bone sardines, mash, sprinkle with paprika, mix with Lemon Dressing and
spread on slices of white bread. Tear lettuce into small pieces with the
fingers, dot it over the slices and cover with a buttered slice of
bread; press together slightly and cut into any desired shape.


PEARL ONION SANDWICHES.

Butter white bread, cover with minced pearl onion pickles, then a
lettuce leaf, spread with mayonnaise and top with a plain slice of
bread. Slightly press together, trim, and cut in any desired shape.


ONION SANDWICHES.

Prepare white onions by directions in Pointers, mince finely and mix
with French dressing. Put between slices of buttered bread, cut from a
Pullman loaf. Cut each sandwich into three slices, making narrow, long
sandwiches. These are also nice made in the same way, using salt and
pepper instead of French dressing.


PEANUT SANDWICHES.

Mix peanut butter with mayonnaise, spread on thin slices of white bread,
dot over with small pieces of endive and cover with a piece of buttered
bread. Roll, and wrap separately in oil paper. When served unwrap and
slip each sandwich into a green pepper ring. Select small, long green
peppers and cut into rings.


SALMON SANDWICHES.

Sprinkle finely minced salmon with cayenne, mixed with chopped celery
and olives. Add mayonnaise and spread on white bread with lettuce leaf
between.


HAM SALAD SANDWICHES.

Mix potato salad with a little mayonnaise and chow chow pickle chopped
finely; mash all together and spread on thin slices of cold boiled ham.
Butter a thin slice of white bread, lay the slice of ham on it, cover
with a lettuce leaf, trim and roll. Wrap each separately in oil paper
until ready to serve, unwrap and tie with white baby ribbon. These have
to be made very carefully. Slice the ham very thin and mash the salad
smoothly, using very little.


BEEF SALAD SANDWICHES.

Make by recipe for ham salad sandwiches, spreading thin slices of cold
roast beef with tomatoes mashed with Green Mayonnaise instead of potato
salad.




Index.


  Important Pointers,                            5-7


  SALAD DRESSINGS.

  Cooked White Salad Dressing,                     9
  Cooked Yellow Salad Dressing,                    9
  Deep Yellow Mayonnaise,                         11
  French Dressing,                                10
  Green Mayonnaise,                               11
  Lemon Dressing,                                  9
  Lemon Jelly,                                    12
  Mayonnaise No. 1,                               10
  Mayonnaise No. 2,                               11
  Mayonnaise Plain,                               10
  Nut Dressing,                                   10
  Red Mayonnaise,                                 11
  Roquefort Dressing,                             12


  DINNER SALADS.

  Asparagus Salad,                                15
  Avocado Pear Salad,                             14
  Bell Pepper Salad,                              14
  Cabbage Salad,                                  17
  Cauliflower Salad,                              17
  Celery Salad,                                   16
  Celery Stick Salad No. 1,                       15
  Celery Stick Salad No. 2,                       16
  Cucumber Salad,                                 16
  Endive Salad,                                   13
  Florida Salad,                                  18
  Green Pea Salad,                                15
  Lettuce Heart Salad No. 1,                      13
  Lettuce Heart Salad No. 2,                      13
  Lettuce Salad,                                  13
  Malaga Salad,                                   13
  Mammee-Sapota Salad,                            18
  Radish Salad,                                   17
  Romaine Salad,                                  14
  Spinach Salad,                                  17
  Strawberry Salad,                               18
  String Bean Salad,                              15
  Tomato Cups,                                    14
  Tomato Jelly,                                   16


  LUNCHEON SALADS.

  Avocado Pear Salad,                             19
  Banana Salad,                                   26
  Cheese and Nut Salad,                           25
  Chicken Aspic Salad,                            20
  Chicken Salad,                                  21
  Cocoanut Salad,                                 28
  Crab Salad,                                     22
  Cucumber Boats,                                 24
  Egg Lilies,                                     21
  Grapefruit Salad,                               25
  Guava Salad,                                    28
  Kippered Herring Salad,                         23
  Kumquat Salad,                                  27
  Lemon and Tomato Salad,                         27
  Lobster Salad,                                  23
  Loquat Salad,                                   27
  Mango Salad,                                    27
  Orange Baskets,                                 26
  Orange Salad,                                   25
  Oyster Salad,                                   19
  Pineapple Salad,                                24
  Potato Rose Salad,                              24
  Potato Salad,                                   23
  Roast Beef Salad,                               23
  Salad in Apple Cases,                           26
  Salad in Grapefruit Hulls,                      25
  Salmon Salad,                                   22
  Sardine Eggs,                                   20
  Shrimp Salad,                                   22
  Tangerine Salad,                                25
  Tomato Jelly Salad,                             28
  Tuna Salad,                                     19
  Turkey Salad,                                   19


  BRIDGE SALADS.

  Banana Salad,                                   32
  Bird’s Nest Salad,                              32
  Cabbage Palmetto Salad,                         31
  Golden-Rod Salad,                               31
  Grapefruit Jelly,                               30
  Grapefruit and Pineapple Salad,                 29
  Lettuce and Mayonnaise,                         29
  Porcupine Salad,                                32
  Salmon Salad,                                   31
  Sapodillo Salad,                                31
  Sardines in Lemon Jelly,                        33
  Tomato Lily,                                    30


  SALAD SANDWICHES.

  Anchovy Sandwiches,                             35
  Beef Salad Sandwiches,                          38
  Caviar Sandwiches,                              35
  Chicken Salad Sandwiches,                       35
  Ham Salad Sandwiches,                           37
  Onion Sandwiches,                               36
  Peanut Sandwiches,                              37
  Pearl Onion Sandwiches,                         36
  Pepper Sandwiches,                              36
  Pimento Sandwiches,                             35
  Salmon Sandwiches,                              37
  Sardine Sandwiches,                             36
  Yellow Mayonnaise Sandwiches,                   36




RECIPES.


Typographical errors corrected by the etext transcriber:

preceeding=> preceding {pg 36}







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Florida Salads, by Frances Barber Harris

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 49803 ***
